Release notes for Node and MCO (#31237)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-8-release-notes.adoc

=== Machine API

[id="ocp-4-8-mco-upgrade-complete"]
==== Updates now report status based on all machine config pools

> When updating, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) now waits for the worker machine config pools (MCP) to finish updating before rpeorting that the update is complete. Previously, the MCO reported update progress on the status of the master machine config pools, even if the worker pools were not done updating.   

Reviewer: nit: "rpeorting" -> "reporting"

Reviewer: Also, I may be misunderstanding, but if this is documenting [this code change][1], then the MCO will complete the current update after required pools are updated (as it did in 4.7).  The new-in-4.8 change is that the MCO sets Upgradeable=False as long as there are any incomplete pools.  That blocks *future* minor updates, but does not block future patch updates, or the current update (if any).  Which is nice, because compute updates with lots of nodes and slow-to-drain workloads can take a while, and the current MCO behavior keeps it easy to pick up control-plane CVE fixes and the like in the meantime.

[1]: https://github.com/openshift/machine-config-operator/pull/2487#issue-599945083

=== Machine API

[id="ocp-4-8-mco-upgrade-complete"]
==== Updates now report status based on all machine config pools

> When updating, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) now sets `Upgradeable=False` for any machine config pool that has not completed updating. This status blocks future minor updates, but does not block future patch updates, or the current update. Previously, the MCO reported update progress on the status of the master machine config pools, even if the worker pools were not done updating.   

Author: @wking Am I any closer here?

Reviewer: Based on [this code][1], I expect `Upgradeable=False` when the pool is updating.  But a paused pool may not be updating, even if it "has not completed updating".  I dunno if the MCO logic distinguishes between "paused while level" or "paused while progressing" here, but @kikisdeliveryservice and @yuqi-zhang can probably clear us up.

[1]: https://github.com/openshift/machine-config-operator/pull/2487/files#diff-8a6a064b4db19eb3b29e5280447ac3ba9496e847391489d25c1282767c3354c5R268

Reviewer 2: Paused pools are not presently considered in this process. So "paused while level" == updated (not blocked), and "paused while progressing" == updating (blocked)

Author: @mike-nguyen Is this an issue you can review for QE? Thank you!

Author: @mike-nguyen PTAL

When running machines in vSphere, you can now set the `minReplicas` value to `0` in the `MachineAutoscaler` resource definition. When this value is set to `0`, the cluster autoscaler scales the machine set to and from zero depending on if the machines are in use. For more information, see the xref:../machine_management/applying-autoscaling.html#machine-autoscaler-cr_applying-autoscaling[MachineAutoscaler resource definition].

> [id="ocp-4-8-mco-upgrade-complete"]

Reviewer 3: The mco block got updated but now i think it reads incorrect with the new first paragraph. In 4.8 if any pool is updating, we set Upgradeable = False

==== MCO waits for all machine config pools to update before reporting the update is complete

> When updating, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) now waits for the worker machine config pools (MCP) to finish updating before reporting that the update is complete. Previously, the MCO reported update progress on the status of the master machine config pools, even if the worker pools were not done updating.   

Reviewer 2: So I might be misremembering, but if I recall correctly the worker MCP doesn't block upgrade completing if it's not degraded. Is that the case @kikisdeliveryservice ? If so we should maybe clarify

Author: @yuqi-zhang Did I cover this in the following paragraph: _(MCO) now reports an `Upgradeable=False` status to the Cluster Version Operator (CVO) if any machine config pool has not completed updating. This status blocks future minor updates, but does not block future patch updates, or the current update._

Reviewer 3: We need to delete that first paragraph, it's not correct and the 4.8 work is limited to only the second paragraph.

Author: @kikisdeliveryservice Done. Thanks!!

> When updating, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) now sets `Upgradeable=False` for any machine config pool that has not completed updating. This status blocks future minor updates, but does not block future patch updates, or the current update. Previously, the MCO reported update progress on the status of the master machine config pools, even if the worker pools were not done updating.   

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When updating, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) now reports an `Upgradeable=False` status to the CVO if any machine config pool has not completed updating. This status blocks future minor updates, but does not block future patch updates, or the current update. Previously, the MCO reported "Upgradeable" status based on only of the master machine config pool, even if the worker pools were not done updating.   
```

Reviewer 3: @wking @yuqi-zhang ptal at my comments

Reviewer: "status to the CVO" -> "condition in its ClusterOperator"?  The CVO is one of several potential ClusterOperator consumers.

Reviewer 2: I think the updates look good other than Trevor's comment

- `cstate status`: If the `intel_idle` driver has C-states or idle states, the `cstate status` label is `true`. Otherwise, it is `false`.

> [id="ocp-4-8-nodes-no-reboot-cert"]

Author: I added the following note twice, once in Machine API and here in Nodes, as there was a issue for both teams to address this change, and the change does impact both components. LMK if this is a bad idea.
